# This is my journal

What did we do?
For the 33rd week of Information Science, we moved away from coding and into the world of cryptography. This was a really fun assignment for me, as I have been interested in cryptography ever since my uncle took me to the Computer History Museum. It was here I first learned about the enigma cypher. After being given this assignment, I began work on decoding the first riddle. I wrote up a sheet of paper and, after two tries, I got the code and decyphered the message. Answering the riddle wasn't to difficult, just required some out of the box thinking. Decoding the second riddle went much in the same way, and I was very excited to see that the link lead me to a video about Cicada 3301. I had done some research into this a few years back, and was well versed with the mystery. I believe it is now at a point where the Liber Primus must be decoded in order for the puzzle to continue. However, the frustratingly double-interpretation of pretty much every page of the book has lead decoders to a point where continuing has become a excersize in fulitility. However, the puzzle was interesting while it lasted, and I enjoyed learning about it. Now, on to the second part. After watching the videos provided, I watched a movie pertaining to the subject, called "The Imitation Game." In it, Alan Turing cracks the Enigma, however he must hide his accomplishment from the world, as he as rendered a code believed to be uncrackable, crackable. This could provide an advantage in future wars, and as such his military record is wiped, and he commited suicide in 1952 after a year of chemical castration. After being sufficiently inspired, I decided to create a cypher. I had a bunch of ideas, including a code that uses an irrational number as a base, however, ultimately I was limited by materials I had on-hand and time constraints due to other assignments. As such, I made a simple cypher chart. Functionally, it is a substitution cypher, akin to the Ceaser Cypher. However, each letter is displaced by a different margin. The major flaw with the device is its size. It is unable to be carried on hand.  It is capable of being changed at will, and is good as a basic encription device. Here is a [link](https://drive.google.com/open?id=1isFWLA7KtQfrmBSPsLUaRzK8NrTsaqGt) to a folder with my documentation of the process. It contains videos of the encoding and decoding process. Overall, it was fun to work on, however, I do wish that I was not so limited by time and material constraints. 

What did I learn?
I learned more about the history behind Alan Turning and the Enigma machine. I became more familliar with breaking codes. I learned how to create my own code from scratch. I got a nice refresher on the Cicade 3301 organization. I learned more about the history of the Ceaser Cypher and cryptography as a whole. 

What questions do I have?
Will we get the opportunity to break more complex codes? What encription codes are used today? Can irrational numbers be used as bases for cyphers?
